## Loan-Default-Prediction
# Business model for Lending Club
LendingClub is the largest online FinTech (Financial Technology) platform that connects borrowers with investors by helping to provide unsecured personal loans between $1000 and $4000 typically with 3-year or 5-year terms. The platform enables the borrowers to apply for a loan, who are undeserved by traditional lending institutions and the loan investors who are seeking yield-generating investments. It basically enables loan trading on a secondary market.
The loans can be repaid at any time without penalty. The use of Internet platforms reduces costs by excluding operational expenses which are associated with the traditional banking system, such as the cost of maintaining and staffing, physical branches etc. In some cases, this cost saving is passed to borrowers through lower interest rates than those offered by traditional banks. The peer-to-peer websites offer a protection from market losses incurred due to non-payment of loans by maintaining certain funds. (https://www.alliedmarketresearch.com/peer-to-peer-lending-market)
Investors can search and browse the loan listings on LendingClub website and select loans that they want to invest in based on the information supplied about the borrower, amount of loan, loan grade, and loan purpose. Although, the loans can only be chosen at the interest rates assigned by LendingClub, investors can decide how much to fund each borrower, with the minimum investment of $25 per note. Investors make money from interest. Rates vary from 6.03% to 26.06%, depending on the credit grade assigned to the loan request. The grades assigned to these requests range alphabetically from A to G, with A being the highest-grade, lowest-interest loan. Each of these letter grades has five finer-grain sub-grades, numbered 1 to 5, with 1 being the highest sub-grade. The company facilitates interest rates that are better for lenders and borrowers than they would receive from most banks.
LendingClub makes money by charging borrowers an origination fee and investors a service fee. The size of the origination fee depends on the credit grade and ranges to be 1.1%-5.0% of the loan amount. The
size of the service fee is 1% on all amounts the borrower pays. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LendingClub#Business_model)
# Data exploration
Below are the number of charged off and fully paid loans in grades A, B, C, D, E, F, G:
A B C D E F G Charged Off 1168 3367 4986 2833 1064 202 32 Fully Paid 21423 26156 20610 8238 2245 261 39 Total number of charged off = 13652 Total number of fully paid = 78972 Total loans = 92624 Proportion of defaults in data is 14.74: 85.26
